brian powell of i run far here with nick
clark for the 2013 western states 100
how you doing Nick get Brian how you but
all right you got this race pretty well
figured out it seems yeah but I've never
run it 100 degree temperatures no no I
mean there's one thing running under 60
only person running under 16 twice a
couple third-place finishes 100 degrees
I know yeah so that's a whole new
element so how does that change things
you feel how do you run in the heat I
you know all right not great not
terrible comer in between so I'm not
worrying about it too much and we'll
just see what the day brings as always
gotcha gotcha um doesn't seem like
you've raced a whole lot this frame did
you purposely go a little easier yeah I
try to dial back the mileage a lil bit
and also the the racing so I could kind
of have a really solid training block
and that's what I have done in that lake
sonoma was was a decent race and then i
ran a local mouth and the the weekend
after that which wasn't a great idea I
felt kind of terrible few weeks after
that so that was kind of stupid but no
after I got through that kind of two
week period of leg sludge the you know
since then it's been great I've been
feeling super good and yeah yeah it's a
great run this morning up on the five
lakes trail up to the back side of
school there and yeah so feeling good
feeling good no setbacks and all you
know this whole season really right no
no not really not not no injury issues
or just been good steady trend yeah uh
you like I said you've been real steady
the last couple years always new talent
coming to western states yeah so
whoo-hoo the wild cards to see who those
new folks that are just why you know we
go I waited for the win um you know uh
you know outside of the guys that
everybody's talking about there's a guy
from Idaho Jeremy Humphreys who I think
might surprise a few people mm-hmm um he
kind of reminds me of myself in 2010
when I you know nobody knew who the hell
I was and just kind of snuck in there
and had a great race I think he's going
to have a good run Jake Redmond Redmond
my buddy Jake I think he'll have a good
run he seems like he's fair and
obviously you knows the core
you know he's a western states kekeke
sir and it helps me help morning in the
ajw new years to help you hon last year
I mean yeah I mean it's his first time
running it is second hundred but he
knows of course he knows how to pace
himself on it so I think he'll go well
Joe you hon had a great run at lake
sonoma really impressed me I think Joe's
gonna have a good run um my buddy
Pettitte Ella from Colorado he's gonna
surprise him phone I think you might
sneak in the top ten you know okay he's
steady consistent and you know like
we've been sayin it's gonna be a hot
days so there's gonna be lots of
attrition yeah which leaves me perfectly
to fit ask you I was gonna say you know
one guy who I'd people are probably
pretty familiar with but haven't really
been talking about is Jorge I think
Jorge is gonna have a good run don't
tell him I told you that but I think
he's gonna you won't know no one tell
Jorge um it is going to be hot yeah but
you've also I mean you've finished third
twice in a row right yeah yeah well how
do you do you know you've been really
smart consistent races yeah I give you
the urge to just go for the gust 0 from
the starter unit Rhonda Clark no no more
grace Hitler I mean here's what's going
to happen it's going to be a hot day
like we said and there's gonna be a lot
of people who kind of fall off the pace
later in the race I think it's going to
take 15-30 to 1545 to win it mm-hmm so
you pace your race to run that kind of
finish time and you know if I can run in
that range and I think I'm going to be
I'm going to be in the mix so we'll see
I the way I think it probably going to
go out as they'll be a lead pack that'll
probably go out hard and then I chased
back I see myself being in that chase
back gotcha anything you do special
woman any tips for people dealing with
running the heater oh geez I'm from
England man we we should know how to
happen to you it's not natural we run in
the rain and the
and you know in the fog out there ah you
know through the head of the day you
slow it down of course you consciously
do that oh absolutely well I mean yeah I
mean you really can't help but run start
but I think consciously you need to dial
it back and of course you've got a
you've got to make sure that you making
use of the creek crossings to tip your
hat to douse cool off your quads and get
ice at all the aid stations and make
sure you doubting the VA station just
you know do what you can stay cool so if
you gonna have to back off during the
heat of the day does it mean maybe push
a little more early well I've been
thinking about that and yeah I think
there is some group sets for that
strategy maybe push a little through to
aha maybe Robinson and then cruise the
downhill when it starts getting a little
toasty but it's still pretty well you
know you got good cover through there so
the heat won't be too bad i'm hoping all
the way down the swinging bridge right
and then yea once again i'll swing
bridge that's I mean it's hot down there
and you're walking up a steep hill ya
know you were walking when I saw yeah I
mean it's it's a what it's a hike run
type of thing 6040 maybe there's a good
spring right across from swinging bridge
so you make sure you make take full
advantage of that get your hat where get
get your clothes off in and then you get
your head down and your hoof up to devil
star and then you got to get through the
Michigan Bluff which is just a grind and
grunt and then the race is on from there
there you go one like the rest of us
grunts further back in the pack you
don't have to factor in this like I get
a deal with a little cooling off maybe
and evening you're going to be hopefully
finishing right about yeah it's still
gonna be hot out it's going to be hot
it's always hot down on the river even
last year it felt a little hunger down
on the river and that was like 75 maybe
it's gonna be better than that so it's
gonna be 25 degrees hotter so it's going
to be really hot going down there and
then up to Green Gate of course it's
super exposed so that's going to be
super hot and then you get in the trees
so I'm hoping once once we get past
greengage it'll be a little more
manageable and those people have saved
their legs that's where it's all going
to happen last twenty miles guess you're
gonna be one of those people saving your
legs trying to go better that third
place right that's the log out there
Clark alright thanks Brian yeah yeah
you